# Contents 

[Installation Options](#installation-options)

* [Package Manager Installation](#package-manager-installation)

  * [Debian and Derivatives](#debian-and-derivatives)
  * [Arch](#arch)
  * [Gentoo](#gentoo)
  
* [`pip` Installation](#pip-installation)

[Running AutoKey](#running-autokey)

## Installation Options

There are two versions of the Python3-based AutoKey

* `autokey-gtk` - for systems using a GTK-based desktop environment such as GNOME, MATE, Ubuntu Unity, etc.
* `autokey-qt` - for systems using a Qt-based desktop environment such as KDE Plasma, Lumina, etc.

AutoKey can be most easily installed using one of these two methods:

* package manager
* [`pip`][pip]

**NOTE:** Remove existing AutoKey installation before attempting these steps.

### Removing Existing AutoKey

1. Quit Autokey - verify the AutoKey icon is not present in your system tray
1. Backup your `~/.config/autokey` directory if you wish to save existing scripts and phrases. These files are not touched normally, but upgrading AutoKey may alter the script or phrase configuration in non-backwards-compatible ways, thus may make reverting to the previous installation impossible.
1. Uninstall the existing AutoKey

## Package Manager Installation

### Debian and Derivatives

This section applies to Debian and derivatives such as Ubuntu and Mint. These steps assume that you have Python version 3.5 or higher.

AutoKey releases are available [here](https://github.com/autokey/autokey/releases/)

Either use the supplied Debian packages attached to the GitHub release, or build your own Debian packages.\
Using the pre-built packages: 
Chose the GUI you want and then download the `autokey-common_VERSION_all.deb` package plus the chosen frontend package (`autokey-gtk_VERSION_all.deb` or `autokey-qt_VERSION_all.deb` to a directory on your system.
Building your own packages is described here: https://github.com/autokey/autokey/wiki/Packaging


Change into that directory containing the packages (in a terminal) then

To install it on a Debian-based system, use the following:

    sudo dpkg --install autokey-common_VERSION_all.deb autokey-gtk_VERSION_all.deb
    sudo apt install --fix-missing

(substituting the version you downloaded for "VERSION".)

They need to be installed at the same time and `dpkg` will get it right while `apt` might not.
If you prefer to use the QT front end, you can download and install that instead of (or in addition to) the GTK version.
The second command will take care to install all dependencies from the official repositories.

Since AutoKey is a Python3 application, it is largely independent of particular distribution releases and should work on most relatively current distributions.

### Arch

Up to date packages are available in the Arch User Repository([AUR package][aur]). It supports both the GTK and Qt GUI, but make sure to install the optional dependencies for the GUI you want.
It seems that the AUR package specifies some run-time dependencies (programs used in certain API calls, like kdialog) as optional dependencies, so check the program log for errors caused by missing programs, when API calls fail.

## `pip` Installation

If you are using a distribution other than those listed above or if you want to install AutoKey from GitHub you can use this [`pip`][pip] installation method.

This assumes you have Python version 3.5 or higher installed.

If `git` is not already installed, [install git][installgit] to directly install from GitHub. Alternatively, you can perform the install from a snapshot archive, generated by GitHub. You can download such a ZIP archive containing the source code from the [GitHub release page](https://github.com/autokey/autokey/releases). Click on a release, then download one of the `Source code` archives and unpack it.

If the Python3 version of `pip` is not already installed, install `pip` using these [instructions][installpip].

The following Python3 dependencies need to be installed. If the install fails, look at your error messages - you might need to manually install one or more of the dependencies. Many dependencies are not specified in `setup.py`, so are not installed automatically.

Installing the dependencies from PyPI may be tricky and break your system in unexpected ways, so prefer to install the dependencies from your Distribution’s package manager whereever possible. For example, installing `dbus-python` from PyPI will _shadow_ your local `dbus-python` installation (even if installed later by your package manager), _including any plugins present there_. This may break software relying on the plugins, for example the HPLIP software.


**Dependencies:**

The GTK GUI depends on these 
`autokey-gtk` version

* [GObject Introspection](https://gi.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html)
* PyGTK
* [GtkSourceView](https://wiki.gnome.org/Projects/GtkSourceView)
* libappindicator
* libdbus-glib-1-dev
* `zenity` command line tool for the dialogue windows available in the Scripting API

`autokey-qt` version

* [PyQt5](https://pypi.org/project/PyQt5/)
    * The PyQt5 SVG module, if not bundled with the base installation
    * The PyQt5-QScintilla2 module, if not bundled with the base installation
* `kdialog` command line tool for the dialogue windows available in the Scripting API

_Both_ versions need

* dbus-python 
* pyinotify
* python-xlib
* `wmctrl` command line tool for window manipulation available in the Scripting API

### [Installing Dependencies for Debian](#Installing-Debian-dependencies)

    # Needed for both:
    sudo apt install python3-dbus python3-xlib python3-pyinotify wmctrl
    # Needed for autokey-gtk:
    sudo apt install python3-gi gir1.2-gtk-3.0 gir1.2-gtksource-3.0 gir1.2-appindicator3-0.1 gir1.2-glib-2.0 gir1.2-notify-0.7 zenity
    # Needed for autokey-qt:
    sudo apt install python3-pyqt5 python3-pyqt5.qsci python3-pyqt5.qtsvg kdialog

### Installing Dependencies for Arch Linux
The AUR package lists all packages needed with their respective Arch-specific names:
https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/autokey

### Installing Dependencies from PyPI
TODO

### [Installing AutoKey]
Install AutoKey from the [AutoKey GitHub repository][autorepo] for your user only:

    $ pip3 install --user git+https://github.com/autokey/autokey
    
AutoKey will be located in your user directory: `~/.local/bin/autokey`
  
## Running AutoKey

In order to run AutoKey, the installation directory must be added to your PATH shell environment variable. If you installed AutoKey with a package manager this was probably done for you automatically. Note: the installation directory will vary based on which distribution you are using. For example, on Ubuntu 16.04 it is `/usr/bin/autokey`.

You can run AutoKey by using your distribution's application launcher. For example, on Ubuntu, just click on the super-key and type `autokey`. The main application window should open and you should see the AutoKey "A" icon in your taskbar. You can right-click on the "A" icon to see some menu choices and to quit AutoKey.

If you installed AutoKey using `pip` or if the installation directory was not added to your `PATH`, you can set this temporarily (will revert at next login):

    $ PATH="$HOME/.local/bin:$PATH"

Or you can add it permanently by following these [directions][path].

Either way, once `$HOME/.local/bin` as used by the pip3 installation method (or whichever installation directory was used) is in your `PATH` you can run AutoKey by executing the applicable command for the version you wish to run:

    $ autokey-gtk
    $ autokey-qt
    
## Installing Debian dependencies<a name="Installing-Debian-dependencies"></a>

[Details here](https://github.com/autokey/autokey/wiki/FAQ#what-are-the-dependency-packages-for-autokey)

November 2011
Original author, Keith W. Daniels
Edited by Joseph Pollock, troxor, and ersanchez

[aur]: https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/autokey-py3
[autorepo]: https://github.com/autokey/autokey
[installgit]: https://git-scm.com/download/linux
[installpip]: https://packaging.python.org/install_requirements_linux/#installing-pip-setuptools-wheel-with-linux-package-managers
[layman]: https://github.com/y2kbadbug/gentoo-overlay/tree/master/app-misc/autokey-py3
[path]: http://stackoverflow.com/questions/14637979/how-to-permanently-set-path-on-linux
[pip]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pip_(package_manager)
[ppa]: https://askubuntu.com/a/4990
