.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps.
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection.
.\" Other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1).
.TH AUTOKEY-RUN "1" "April 18, 2023"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the man page.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left-justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" For man-page-specific macros, see man(7).
.SH NAME
autokey-run \- command-line execution utility for AutoKey
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B autokey-run
.RI -[s|p|f] [name]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page briefly documents the \fBautokey-run\fP command.
.PP
.\" TeX users may be more comfortable with the \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences to invoke bold-face or italics,
.\" respectively.
\fBautokey-run\fP is a command-line execution utility for AutoKey that
allows you to initiate execution of folders, phrases, or scripts from
the command line.
.PP
See the online wiki at https://github.com/autokey/autokey/wiki for more
information.
.SH OPTIONS
This program follows the usual GNU command-line syntax in which long
options start with two dashes (`--').
A summary of options is included below.
.TP
.B \-f, \-\-folder [name]
Display a pop-up menu for the specified folder.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show a summary of all options.
.TP
.B \-p, \-\-phrase [name]
Paste a phrase with the specified name.
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-script [name]
Run a script with the specified name.
.SH AUTHOR
AutoKey was written by Chris Dekter and was loosely based on a script by
Sam Peterson.
.PP
This manual page was written by Chris Dekter <cdekter@gmail.com>.
