.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the man page:
.TH AUTOKEY-GTK "1" "June 25, 2023"
.\"
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps.
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection.
.\" Other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1).
.\"
.\" TeX users may be more comfortable with the \fB<whatever>\fR and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fR escape sequences to invoke bold-face or italics,
.\" respectively.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left-justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" For man-page-specific macros, see man(7).

.SH NAME
\fBautokey-gtk\fR  \- desktop/script-automation utility with a 
GTK-based graphical interface

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBautokey-gtk\fR -[\fIc|C|h|m|v|V\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBAutoKey\fR is a set of command-line and GUI applications using GTK 
or Qt that can be run in a variety of ways as a 
desktop/script-automation utility for Linux and X11. \fBAutoKey\fR 
allows for the automation of virtually any task by responding to typed 
abbreviations and hotkeys. It provides a full-featured GUI for setting 
up automatic text insertions or replacements and a scripting interface 
for access to the flexibility and power of the Python language.

.SH OPTIONS
This program follows the usual GNU command-line syntax with two dashes 
used for long options. A summary of options is included below.
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-configure
Open the AutoKey main window.
.TP
.B \-C, \-\-cutelog
Connect to a local default \fBcutelog\fR instance to display the full 
program log.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show a summary of all options.
.TP
.B \-g, \-\-grabkey
Enable verbose logging that includes X11 "grabbing hotkey" messages.
.TP
.B \-m, \-\-mouse
Enable verbose logging that includes mouse-button events.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose, \-l
Enable verbose logging (\fB-l\fR is deprecated).
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Print the current AutoKey version to standard output.

.SH AUTHOR
AutoKey was written by Chris Dekter <cdekter@gmail.com> and was loosely 
based on a script by Sam Peterson.

.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
\fBautokey-qt\fR(1), \fBautokey-run\fR(1), \fBpython\fR(1), \fBwmctrl\fR(1), \fBxautomation\fR(7), \fBxdotool\fR(1), \fBxmodmap\fR(1), \fBzenity\fR(1)
.TP
\fBRelated software:\fR
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBcutelog:\fR https://github.com/busimus/cutelog
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBRegular expression syntax:\fR https://docs.python.org/3/library/re.html
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBRegular expression tutorial:\fR https://docs.python.org/3/howto/regex.html
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBXKB:\fR https://www.x.org/releases/current/doc/xorg-docs/input/XKB-Config.html
.RE
.TP
\fBSimilar software in other operating systems:\fR
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBAutoHotKey\fR is a free and open-source tool available for Micosoft
Windows users.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBAutomator\fR is a default Apple tool.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBText Replacement\fR is a default Apple tool.
.RE
.TP
\fBAutoKey web pages:\fR
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBDocumentation:\fR
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBAutoKey 0.95.0 through 0.95.10:\fR https://autokey.github.io/autokey/index.html
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBAutoKey 0.96.0 and newer:\fR https://autokey.github.io/index.html
.RE
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBHome:\fR https://github.com/autokey/autokey
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBIssues:\fR https://github.com/autokey/autokey/issues
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBSocial:\fR
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBDiscord:\fR https://github.com/autokey/autokey/wiki/Discord
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBDiscussions:\fR https://github.com/autokey/autokey/discussions
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBGitter:\fR https://github.com/autokey/autokey/wiki/Gitter
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBGoogle Groups:\fR https://github.com/autokey/autokey/wiki/Google-Groups
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBReddit:\fR https://github.com/autokey/autokey/wiki/Reddit
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBStackExchange:\fR https://github.com/autokey/autokey/wiki/StackExchange
.RE
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBWiki:\fR https://github.com/autokey/autokey/wiki
.RE
